## Homework #1

**Error –** a human action that produces an incorrect result. This is also sometimes referred to as **Mistake**.

**Fault –** a manifestation of an error in software, also known as **Defect** or **Bug**.

**Failure –** a deviation of the software from its expected delivery or service.

An error is something that a human does, we all make mistakes and  when we do whilst developing software, it is known as an error. The  result of an error being made is a fault. It is something that is wrong  in the software (source code or documentation – specifications, manuals, etc.). Faults are also known as defects or bugs.

When a system or piece of software produces an incorrect result or  does not perform the correct action, this is known as a failure.  Failures are caused by faults in the software. Note that software system can contain faults but still never fail (this can occur if the faults  are in those parts of the system that are never used). In other words,  failure is the manifestation of one or more faults (bugs).

### Example 

In the code below, if `add`  is a function that will return  11 (but is required 10), we could say there is an **error** in function `add`.  This bug does cause a **fault**, but the output is correct (11>0 as well as 10>0). So the whole system has no **failure**.

```cpp
// 'add' function defination ...

if (add(3,7) > 0) {
	cout << "YES" << endl; 
} else {
    cout << "NO" << endl;
}
```

But in the next code list, if this action exists in the system and a user received its output, it is called a **failure**.

```cpp
if (add(3,7) == 10) {
	cout << "YES" << endl; 
} else {
    cout << "NO" << endl;
}
```

