#### **First level of reuse: Class libraries**

Reuse at class level or a set of classes in a software library is common and also fairly easy with object-oriented languages.

> “Libraries contain code and data that provide services to independent programs. This allows the sharing and changing of code and  data in a modular fashion. Some executables are both standalone programs and libraries, but most libraries are not executables …” [Wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Library_(computer_science))

#### **Second level of reuse: Design Patterns**

Patterns allow you to reuse design ideas and concepts independent of concrete code.

> “In software engineering, a design pattern is a general  reusable solution to a commonly occurring problem in software design. A  design pattern is not a finished design that can be transformed directly into code. It is a description or template for how to solve a problem  that can be used in many different situations. Object-oriented design  patterns typically show relationships and interactions between classes  or objects, without specifying the final application classes or objects  that are involved.” [Wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Design_pattern_(computer_science))

#### **Third level of reuse: Frameworks**

An object-oriented abstract design to solve a specific problem –  often very specialized, like Unit Testing frameworks and  Object-Relational Mapping frameworks, but can be large, complex or  domain specific.

> “A software framework … is an abstraction in which common code providing generic functionality can be selectively overridden or  specialized by user code providing specific functionality. Frameworks  are a special case of software libraries in that they are reusable  abstractions of code wrapped in a well-defined API, yet they contain  some key distinguishing features that separate them from normal  libraries.” [Wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Software_framework)

It’s all about being pragmatic – not all software will reach fourth  level of reuse and will be structured as frameworks – frankly it  shouldn’t. That said; copy/past style development is unquestionably a  wrong path.