# 软件测试作业2

## 1 Steam - famous game platform

Valve's Steam client for Linux could accidentally delete all the user's files in every directory on the computer. This happened to users that had moved Steam's installation directory.[53] The bug is the result of unsafe shellscript programming:

```
STEAMROOT="$(cd "${0%/*}" && echo $PWD)"

# Scary!
rm -rf "$STEAMROOT/"*
```

The first line tries to find the script's containing directory. This could fail, for example if the directory was moved while the script was running, invalidating the "selfpath" variable `$0`. It would also fail if `$0 `contained no slash character, or contained a broken symlink, perhaps mistyped by the user. The way it would fail, as ensured by the && conditional, and not having `set -e `cause termination on failure, was to produce the empty string. This failure mode was not checked, only commented as "Scary!". Finally, in the deletion command, the slash character takes on a very different meaning from its role of path concatenation operator when the string before it is empty, as it then names the root directory.

## 2 IPhone

In May 2015, iPhone users discovered a bug where sending a certain sequence of characters and Unicode symbols as a text to another iPhone user would crash the receiving iPhone's SpringBoard interface, and may also crash the entire phone, induce a factory reset, or disrupt the device's connectivity to a significant degree, preventing it from functioning normally. The bug persisted for weeks,  gained substantial notoriety and saw a number of individuals using the  bug to play pranks on other iOS users, before Apple eventually patched it on June 30, 2015 with iOS 8.4.

## 3 Finance web

The Vancouver Stock Exchange index had large errors due to repeated rounding. In January 1982 the  index was initialized at 1000 and subsequently updated and truncated to three decimal places on each trade. This was done about 3000 times a day. The accumulated truncations led to an erroneous loss of around 25  points per month. Over the weekend of November 25–28, 1983, the error  was corrected, raising the value of the index from its Friday closing  figure of 524.811 to 1098.892.

## 4 Misc.

- In April 2015,  Bloomberg terminal in London crashed due to software glitch affected  more than 300,000 traders on financial markets. It forced the government to postpone a 3bn pound debt sale.
- Nissan cars have to recall  over 1 million cars from the market due to software failure in the  airbag sensory detectors. There has been reported two accident due to  this software failure.
- Starbucks was forced to close about 60  percent of stores in the U.S and Canada due to software failure in its  POS system. At one point store served coffee for free as they unable to  process the transaction.
- Some of the Amazon’s third party  retailers saw their product price is reduced to 1p due to a software  glitch. They were left with heavy losses.
- Vulnerability in Window 10. This bug enables users to escape from security sandboxes through a flaw in the win32k system.
- In 2015 fighter plane F-35 fell victim to a software bug, making it unable to detect targets correctly.
- China Airlines Airbus A300 crashed due to a software bug on April 26, 1994, killing 264 innocent live
- In 1985, Canada's Therac-25 radiation therapy machine malfunctioned due to software bug and delivered lethal radiation doses to patients, leaving 3 people dead and critically injuring 3 others.
- In April of  1999, a software bug caused the failure of a $1.2 billion military  satellite launch, the costliest accident in history
- In may of  1996, a software bug caused the bank accounts of 823 customers of a  major U.S. bank to be credited with 920 million US dollars.

## ST Importance

### 1. Software Testing Saves Money

Testing has many benefits and one of the most important ones is  cost-effectiveness. Having testing in your project can save money in the long run. Software development consists of many stages and if bugs are  caught in the earlier stages it costs much less to fix them. That is why it’s important to get testing done as soon as possible. Getting testers or QA’s who are technically educated and experienced for a software  project is just like an investment and your project will benefit  budget-wise.

### 2. Security

Another important point to add is security. This is probably the most sensitive and yet most vulnerable part.

### 3. Product Quality

In order to make your product vision come to life, it has to work as  planned. Following product requirements is imperative, to an extent,  because it helps you get the wanted end results.

### 4. Customer Satisfaction

The ultimate goal for a product owner is to give the best customer  satisfaction. Reasons why apps and software should be tested is to bring the best user experience possible. Being the best product in this  saturated market will help you gain trustworthy clients which will have  great long-term effects. Once users will have amazing customer  experience they will, without a doubt, tell their friends and word to  mouth will make it advertise itself, but this works both ways.